---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "1"
course_code: "ag1crt01"
course_title: "history-of-art-and-design"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG1CRT01: History of Art and Design

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
The goal of this course is to examine the role and development of the visual arts across different cultures and time periods. It's designed to help you develop your artistic application, aesthetic judgment, visual perception, and critical thinking skills. After this course, you'll be able to:
* Understand the role and development of visual arts in past and present cultures.
* Develop skills in art application and form aesthetic judgments.
* Enhance your visual perception and critical thinking abilities.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Prehistoric visual representations**: Covers the Paleolithic to the Neolithic Period, including Lascaux, Altamira, and Indian evidences.
* **The earliest writing**: Explores Mesopotamian visual identification, Egyptian hieroglyphs, Chinese calligraphy, and the evolution from pictographs to alphabets.

### **Module 2**
* **Art from Civilizations**: Traces the development of art from Mesopotamian, Egyptian, Indian, Chinese, Greek & Roman civilizations through the Byzantine, Gothic, Renaissance, and Baroque eras.

### **Module 3**
* **The Art of Printing**: Discusses the invention of paper, the discovery of printing, and the invention of movable type.
* **Early Graphics**: Covers early European block printing, copperplate engraving, illuminated manuscripts, German illustrated books, and graphic design of the Rococo Era.

### **Module 4**
* **Artistic Movements**: Explores the development of art from imaginative to ideological, including Romanticism, Impressionism, Expressionism, and Cubism.
* **20th Century Graphic Design**: Details the impact of the Industrial Revolution, the development of photography as a communication tool, Victorian era graphic design, and the development of Lithography.

### **Module 5**
* **Modern Art and Design**: Focuses on Art and Craft movements like Art Nouveau, Modernism, Art Deco, Bauhaus, Organic design, Minimalism, Pop art, Postmodernism, American Kitsch, and Conceptual art.

## References
1.  *A Concise History of Art*: G.Buzin.
2.  *Encyclopedia of World Art* (Vol.I&II): Mcgraw Hill Publication.
3.  *Necessity of Art*: Ernest Fisher.
4.  *Meggs' History of Graphic Design*: Philip B. Meggs, Alston W. Purvis.
5.  *Graphic Design History: A Critical Guide*: Johanna Drucker, Emily Mcvarish.
6.  *The Dictionary of Visual Language*: Philip Thompson, Peter Davenport.