---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-visual-effects"
version: "2017"
semester: "2"
course_code: "av2crp02"
course_title: "introduction-to-3d"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AV2CRP02: Introduction to 3D

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course introduces you to the world of 3D, teaching you how to work in 3D space, model, texture, apply lights, and render a final output. Upon completion, you will be able to:
* Understand the 3D coordinate system and the 3D production pipeline.
* Navigate a 3D software interface and apply various modeling techniques (Spline, NURBS, Polygon).
* Create and apply shaders, materials, and textures to 3D models.
* Set up basic lighting (1, 2, and 3-point) and understand its attributes.
* Create keyframe animations and render image sequences for both interior and exterior scenes.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **3D Fundamentals**: Introduction to 3D graphics, the 3D Object's Coordinate System (X, Y, Z axis), and the 3D production pipeline. Applications of 3D animation in various fields.

### **Module 2**
* **Modeling Techniques**: Understanding the 3D interface and project folders. Basic skills like transforming objects, hierarchies, and pivots. Modeling techniques including Spline, NURBS, Polygon, and SubD for creating detailed models.

### **Module 3**
* **Texturing and Lighting**: Working with shaders and materials, 2D and 3D textures, and HDR images. Introduction to normal and artificial lighting, including 1-point, 2-point, and 3-point lighting setups, and understanding shadows.

### **Module 4**
* **Basic Animation**: Introduction to animation, keyframe creation, animation curves, and path animation. Creating and animating 3D cameras.

### **Module 5**
* **Environments and Rendering**: Modeling exterior scenes (buildings, streets) and interior scenes (rooms, furniture). Applying exterior and interior lighting, including global illumination. Understanding render settings and batch rendering.

## References
1.  *The Art of 3D Computer Animation and Effects*: Isaac Kerlow
2.  *Autodesk 3ds Max 2014 Essentials*: Randi L. Derakhshani, Dariush Derakhshani
3.  *Autodesk Maya 2014 Essentials*: Paul Naas
4.  *Blender Studio Projects: Digital Movie Making*: Tony Mullen, Claudio Andaur
5.  *Digital Animation Bible Creating professional animation with 3ds Max, Lightwave & Maya*: George Avgerakis
6.  *3D Automotive Modeling: An Insider's Guide to 3D Car Modeling and Design*: Andrew Gahan