---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-visual-effects"
version: "2017"
semester: "2"
course_code: "av2crp06"
course_title: "character-design-for-animation"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AV2CRP06: Character Design for Animation

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course aims to provide you with an understanding of the anatomy of a human body, a creature, or a cartoon character for the purpose of animation design. By the end of this course, you will be able to:
* Apply principles of human anatomy to draw characters of different age groups.
* Construct male and female figures with accurate proportions and analyze motion through poses.
* Draw the anatomy of animals, birds, and reptiles, understanding their unique motion and grace.
* Develop cartoon characters by drawing from basic shapes and distorting proportions.
* Create characters in classic cartoon and Anime styles.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Human Anatomy**: Anatomy of different age groups (Babies, Kids, Teens, Young Adults, Aged). Basic proportions, understanding of the skeletal and muscle system, and human forms in perspective.

### **Module 2**
* **Male and Female Anatomy**: Body structure, proportion, and construction of body parts (Torso, Face, Eyes, Nose, etc.). Motion analysis and study of poses.

### **Module 3**
* **Animal Anatomy**: Anatomy of animals, birds, and reptiles. Body structure, basic forms, and proportion of parts like the head, legs, and tails. Using perspective when drawing animals and understanding their motion.

### **Module 4**
* **Cartoon Characters**: Understanding cartoon constructions and character development. Drawing from basic shapes, distorting proportions, and creating expressive cartoon faces, eyes, hands, and feet.

### **Module 5**
* **Character Styles**: Designing classic cartoon characters (Humans, Animals, Birds) in various styles (Cute, Screwball, Goofy). Creating fairy tale characters and understanding the Anime style.

## References
1.  *How to Draw What You See*: Rudy De Reyna
2.  *Figure Study Made Easy*: Aditya Chari
3.  *Figure Drawing Without a Model*: Ron Tiner
4.  *Anatomy for the Artist*: Sarah Simblet
5.  *The Art of Animal Drawing: Construction, Action, Analysis, Caricature*: Ken Hultgen
6.  *Animal Drawing: Anatomy & Action for Artists*: Charles R. Knight
7.  *Animal Anatomy for Artists*: Eliot Goldfinger
8.  *Cartoon Animation*: Preston Blair
9.  *Disney Animation - The Illusion of Life*: Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston
10. *How to Draw Animation - Learn the Art of Animation from Character Design to Storyboards and Layouts*: Christopher Hart