---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-visual-effects"
version: "2017"
semester: "1"
course_code: "avicrp01"
course_title: "raster-graphics"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AVICRP01: Raster Graphics

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
The objective of this course is to help you develop a basic skill and understanding of raster graphics and their applications. By the end of this course, you will be able to:
* Understand the fundamental concepts of raster images, including pixels, resolution, file formats, and color models.
* Use essential raster graphic software tools for selection, retouching, path creation, and image adjustment.
* Manage layers, channels, masks, and other core features for complex image manipulation.
* Apply layer blend modes for creative effects, texture creation, and compositing.
* Save and export images in appropriate formats for various applications.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Introduction**: What is Raster Graphics? The difference between Raster and Vector graphics.
* **Digital Image Concepts**: Pixels, Bit depth, DPI, LPI, Resolution, File formats (for Print and screen), Compression (Lossy, Lossless), and Colour systems (CMYK, RGB, Spot colour).

### **Module 2**
* **Core Tools**: Using selection tools, retouching tools, pathmaking tools, and image adjustment options.
* **Essential Features**: Processing Camera RAW, working with layers, channels, masks, paths, layer comps, text, swatches, and adjustment layers.

### **Module 3**
* **Software Settings**: Managing preference settings, colour settings, and assigning profiles.
* **Proofing and Preview**: Using proof setup, gamut warning, screen modes, and understanding pixel aspect ratio.

### **Module 4**
* **Saving and Exporting**: Saving files with clipping paths and alpha channels. Exporting to various formats: PSD, PDF, EPS, TIFF, JPEG, and Camera RAW.

### **Module 5**
* **Blend Modes**: Understanding the use of blend modes and how to apply them.
* **Types and Application**: Exploring different blend modes (Normal, Darken, Lighten, Contrast, etc.) and their application in creating custom textures for 3D models and compositing.

## References
1.  *Adobe Photoshop Classroom in a Book*: Adobe Creative Team
2.  *The Book of GIMP A Complete Guide to Nearly Everything*: Olivier Lecarme, Karine Delvare