---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-visual-effects"
version: "2017"
semester: "1"
course_code: "ag1crp03"
course_title: "rudiments-of-animation-drawing"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG1CRP03: Rudiments of Animation Drawing

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course is intended to provide you with a solid understanding of basic drawing techniques specifically for animation. After completing this course, you'll be able to:
* Identify and use a variety of drawing materials and tools, for both wet and dry media.
* Practice fundamental drawing skills like line work, creating shapes from memory, and using grids.
* Develop observational drawing skills through life drawing and quick sketching to capture gestures, poses, and line of action.
* Apply the principles of perspective drawing (one, two, and three-point) to create depth and dimension.
* Demonstrate an understanding of light and shading to give form to objects in perspective.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Drawing Materials**: Introduction to different drawing materials and tools, including Dry media (Pencils, Charcoals), Wet Media (Pens, Brushes), Inks, Paints, Drawing surfaces, and other tools like palettes and easels.

### **Module 2**
* **Fundamental Skills**: Doodling and noodling (drawing straight and curved lines), holding the pencil, understanding line direction, creating shapes and forms, memory and imagination drawing, and drawing with grids.

### **Module 3**
* **Observational Drawing**: Life drawing, sketching poses from live models, capturing gestures, line drawing, quick sketches, thumbnails, stick figures, line of action, balance, rhythm, positive/negative spaces, silhouettes, and caricature fundamentals.

### **Module 4**
* **Perspective Drawing**: Understanding vanishing points, orthogonal lines, horizon, and eye level. Applying one-point, two-point, three-point, and multi-point perspective. Drawing overlapping shapes in perspective and understanding foreshortening.

### **Module 5**
* **Light and Shade**: Exploring tones, lighting, and shading with a basic 3-dimensional light setup. Understanding various types of shadows (cast, contact, core) and highlights to create form.

## References
1.  *Exploring the Elements of Design*: Mark A. Thomas, Poppy Evans
2.  *The Art of Composition*: Michael Jacobs
3.  *The Art of Pictorial Composition*: Wolehonok
4.  *Complete Books of Artist Techniques*: Dr. Kurt Herbers
5.  *Drawing for The Absolute and Utter Beginner*: Claire Watson Garcia
6.  *Perspective Made Easy*: Ernest R Norling
7.  *Perspective Drawing Handbook*: Joseph D'Amelio