---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "6"
course_code: "ag6prp07"
course_title: "design-project"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG6PRP07: Design Project

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This two-part course offers you the opportunity to develop an original body of graphic design work that reflects your personal design vision and to prepare a professional demo reel for job interviews. You will:
* Develop and execute an original, in-depth graphic design project from concept to final printed artefact.
* Produce a written component to accompany the final project presentation.
* Create a compelling and professional interactive demo reel that showcases your original work and area of expertise.
* Understand key strategies for creating an engaging demo reel and for self-promotion to successfully face a job interview.

## Course Content
This course has two parts:

### **Part A: Graphic Design Project**
* Students develop an original body of work, culminating in a final presentation accompanied by a written component.
* The project focuses on each student's personal design vision, and the final outcome can range from small to large-scale printed artefacts.
* The project work is carried out under the close guidance of a faculty member.

### **Part B: Demo Reel Presentation**
* This part is intended to assist you in preparing for a job interview.
* You will present a demo reel which is a culmination of your original work or your area of expertise.
* The faculty provides tips and strategies for creating an engaging demo reel in an interactive format.
* Topics include keeping it short, putting your best work first, including contact details, showcasing technical ability, and choosing the right platform (YouTube, Vimeo, etc.) for visibility.