---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "6"
course_code: "ag6cbp1.2"
course_title: "choice-based-course-animation-effects"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG6CBP1.2: Choice Based Course - Animation Effects

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course will prepare you to design and execute compositing and visual effects using digital electronic media, developing a core set of technical and creative skills for digital filmmaking. Upon completion, you will be able to:
* Design and create various particle effects like sand, smoke, fire, and clouds.
* Create and control fluid effects for different simulations, such as fog and explosions.
* Use paint effects to design natural elements like trees, weather phenomena, and glass reflections.
* Design special effects for dynamic elements like hair, fur, and clothes.
* Understand and use advanced VFX tools, including converting 2D images to have 3D effects.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Particle Effects**: Understanding visual effects types. Analysis and creation of particle-based effects like Sand, Smoke, Fire, Cloud, and Snow.

### **Module 2**
* **Fluid Effects**: Working with fluid effects. Coloring and designing cloud backgrounds, fog effects, explosion effects, fire with flames, space effects, and thick smoke.

### **Module 3**
* **Paint Effects**: Designing with paint effects. Coloring paints, designing trees and green effects, designing weather and seasonal effects, creating glass images and reflections, and designing glow and liquid effects.

### **Module 4**
* **Specialized Effects**: Designing special effects for dynamic surfaces, including hair, fur, and clothes.

### **Module 5**
* **Advanced Tools**: Exploring visual effects tools and advanced functions. Converting images from 2D to 3D and creating 3D effects. Differentiating between 2D and 3D effects.

## References
1.  *The Invisible Art*: Mark Cotta Vaz
2.  *Visual Effects Cinematography*: Zoran Perisic
3.  *Industrial Light & Magic: The Art of Special Effects*: Thomas G. Smith
4.  *The Art and Science of Digital Compositing*: Ron Brinkmann
5.  *The Language of Visual Effects*: Micheal J. McAlister
6.  *Special Effects: The History and Technique*: Richard Rickitt