---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "6"
course_code: "ag6cbp1.3"
course_title: "choice-based-course-painting-with-pixels"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG6CBP1.3: Choice Based Course - Painting with Pixels

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course will introduce you to the art and craft of digital painting techniques like matte painting, rotoscoping, and digital paint effects for recreating realistic and fantasy scenes and for character texturing. You will learn to:
* Create digital paintings that mimic traditional media like charcoal, watercolor, and oil.
* Design and paint realistic and fantasy characters, focusing on value, color, lighting, and texture.
* Create detailed matte paintings by extending background plates, adding 3D elements, and color grading.
* Perform rotoscoping and wire removal as part of the visual effects compositing pipeline.
* Create a professional demo reel showcasing your digital painting and VFX skills.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Digital Painting Concepts**: Introduction to digital painting and basic tools. Digital creation of charcoal drawings, pastel, watercolor, and oil paintings using software like Photoshop.

### **Module 2**
* **Character Painting**: Designing characters, including their history and physical look. Drawing, sketching, and painting characters with a focus on value, color, lighting, edges, textures, and patterns.

### **Module 3**
* **Matte Painting**: Preparing background plates, using articulated mattes, performing plate restoration and extension, adding 3D elements, creating sky mattes, and understanding static vs. motion matte painting and color grading.

### **Module 4**
* **VFX Painting Techniques**: Wire removal techniques using compositing software. Rotoscoping basics, tracing for animation, matting with green screens, garbage matting, and compositing.

### **Module 5**
* **Demo Reel**: Creation of a demo reel to showcase the skills learned in the course.

## References
1.  *Bold Vision: A Digital Painting Bible*: Gary Tonge
2.  *Digital Fantasy Painting Workshop*: Martin Mckenna
3.  *Digital Character Design and Painting*: Don Seegmiller
4.  *Complete Digital Painting Techniques*: David Cole
5.  *The Complete Guide to Digital Illustration*: Steve Caplin, Adam Banks and Nigel Holmes
6.  *100 Ways to Create Fantasy Figures*: Francis Tsan
7.  *The Invisible Art: The Legends of Movie Movie Matte Painting*: Mark Cotta Vaz and Craig Barron
8.  *D'artiste Matte Painting*: Alp Altiner, Dylan Cole and Chris Stoski.