---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-visual-effects"
version: "2017"
semester: "3"
course_code: "av3crp03"
course_title: "3d-character-creation"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AV3CRP03: 3D Character Creation

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course provides you with the skills for character modeling, building upon an understanding of the anatomy of a human, a creature, or a cartoon character. After this course, you'll be able to:
* Model human characters and their individual body parts with correct proportions.
* Model various animals and birds, focusing on their unique anatomical structures.
* Create different types of human characters (realistic, stylized, comic) and generate blend shapes for animation.
* Lay out and edit UVs to prepare a character model for texturing.
* Create realistic skin materials using subsurface scattering and advanced shaders.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Human Modeling**: Modeling humans with basic proportions, focusing on body parts like the head, ear, mouth, limbs, and torso.

### **Module 2**
* **Animal Modeling**: Modeling animals and birds, paying attention to their basic proportions and body parts such as the head, horns, tail, and wings.

### **Module 3**
* **Character Variation**: Modeling different types of human characters (Real, Stylized, Comic) and characters of different age groups. Includes the creation of blend shapes.

### **Module 4**
* **Character Texturing (UVs)**: Creating a UV Texture Layout, unfolding UVs, mirroring UVs, arranging UV shells, transferring UVs, using multiple UV sets, and optimizing textures with Unwrap UVW.

### **Module 5**
* **Advanced Materials**: Creating skin material using subsurface scattering. Using Mental Ray shaders and MIA materials for character texturing. Applying the 3D paint tool.

## References
1.  *Mastering Autodesk Maya 2012*: Todd Palamar SYBEX
2.  *Maya Character Creation*: Chris Maraffi