---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-visual-effects"
version: "2017"
semester: "3"
course_code: "av3cmp04"
course_title: "painting-with-pixels"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AV3CMP04: Painting with Pixels

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course introduces the art and craft of digital painting techniques like matte painting using graphic pen tablets. You will learn to recreate realistic or fantasy scenes, create textures, and apply visual effects techniques like wire removal. You will learn to:
* Create digital paintings that mimic traditional media like charcoal, pastel, and oil paint.
* Design and paint characters, focusing on value, color, lighting, and texture.
* Create digital matte paintings by extending plates, adding 3D elements, and color grading.
* Create dreamscapes or backgrounds using elements from various sources.
* Perform rotoscoping and wire removal for visual effects compositing.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Digital Painting Basics**: Concept of digital painting and techniques for drawing with a tablet and graphic pen. Creating digital charcoal, pastel, watercolor, and oil paintings in Photoshop. Colorizing black and white photographs.

### **Module 2**
* **Character Painting**: Character design issues and limitations. Drawing, sketching, and painting characters with a focus on value, color, lighting, edges, and creating textures and patterns for features like eyes, face, and hair.

### **Module 3**
* **Digital Matte Painting**: Preparing the background plate, using articulated mattes, plate restoration and extension, adding 3D elements, creating sky mattes, static and motion matte painting, color grading, and final output.

### **Module 4**
* **Scene Creation**: Methods and techniques for creating a dreamscape or background using elements from various visual sources.

### **Module 5**
* **VFX Painting**: Wire removal techniques using compositing software. Rotoscoping basics, tracing for animation, matting with green screen, garbage matting, and compositing.

## References
1.  *Bold Vision: A Digital Painting Bible*: Gary Tonge
2.  *Digital Fantasy Painting Workshop*: Martin McKenna
3.  *Digital Character Design and Painting*: Don Seegmiller
4.  *Complete Digital Painting Techniques*: David Cole
5.  *Digital Fantasy Painting*: Michael Burns
6.  *The Complete Guide to Digital Illustration*: Steve Caplin, Adam Banks and Nigel Holmes
7.  *100 Ways to Create Fantasy Figures*: Francis Tsan
8.  *The Invisible Art: The Legends of Movie Matte Painting*: Mark Cotta Vaz & Craig Barron
9.  *D'artiste Matte Painting*: Alp Altiner, Dylan Cole and Chris Stoski.