---

country: "india"
university: "ktu"
branch: "eee"
version: "2024"
semester: 1
course-code: "gymat101"
course-title: "mathematics-for-electrical-science-and-physical-science-1"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Sharx05"

---

# GYMAT101 - Mathematics for Electrical Science and Physical Science - 1

## Course Objectives

1.  To provide a comprehensive understanding and basic techniques of matrix theory to analyze linear systems.
2.  To offer advanced knowledge in solving second-order ODEs, applying Laplace transforms, and understanding Fourier series to model dynamic systems.

---

## Syllabus Modules

### Module 1: Linear Algebra

-   Solving linear systems of equations using Gauss elimination. Rank of a matrix, solutions of linear systems. The matrix eigenvalue problem, determining eigenvalues and eigenvectors, and diagonalization of matrices.

### Module 2: Ordinary Differential Equations

-   Homogeneous and non-homogeneous linear ODEs of the second order with constant coefficients. Solution methods include undetermined coefficients and variation of parameters.

### Module 3: Laplace Transforms

-   The Laplace Transform and its inverse, linearity, and shifting theorems. Solving second-order linear ODEs. Unit step function, Dirac delta function, and the convolution theorem.

### Module 4: Series Expansions

-   Taylor and Maclaurin series representations. Fourier series for periodic functions, including half-range sine and cosine series expansions.

---

## Reference Books

-   *Advanced Engineering Mathematics* – Erwin Kreyszig, John Wiley & Sons, 10th edition, 2016
-   *Calculus* – H. Anton, I. Biven, S. Davis, Wiley, 12th edition, 2024
-   *Thomas' Calculus* – Maurice D. Weir, et al., Pearson, 15th edition, 2023
-   *Essential Calculus* – J. Stewart, Cengage, 2nd edition, 2017
-   *Elementary Linear Algebra* – Howard Anton, Chris Rorres, Wiley, 11th edition, 2019
-   *Bird’s Higher Engineering Mathematics* – John Bird, Taylor & Francis, 9th edition, 2021
-   *Higher Engineering Mathematics* – B. V. Ramana, McGraw-Hill, 39th edition, 2023
-   *Signals and Systems* – Simon Haykin, Barry Van Veen, Wiley, 2nd edition, 2002

---
