---

country: "india"
university: "ktu"
branch: "eee"
version: "2024"
semester: 1
course-code: "gmest103"
course-title: "engineering-graphics-and-computer-aided-drawing"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Sharx05"

---

# GMEST103 - Engineering Graphics and Computer Aided Drawing

## Course Objectives

1.  To learn the principles and techniques of dimensioning and preparing engineering drawings.
2.  To develop the ability to accurately interpret and understand engineering drawings.
3.  To learn the features of CAD software.

---

## Syllabus Modules

### Module 1: Projections of Points and Lines

-   Introduction to technical drawing standards. Projection of points in different quadrants. Projection of straight lines inclined to one or both reference planes, including traces and true length.

### Module 2: Projection of Solids

-   Projection of simple solids like Prisms, Pyramids, Cones, and Cylinders in simple positions and with the axis inclined to one or both reference planes.

### Module 3: Sections and Development of Solids

-   Sections of various solids cut by different section planes and determining the true shape of the sections. Development of the lateral surfaces of these solids.

### Module 4: Isometric Projection and CAD

-   Isometric scale, view, and projections of prisms, pyramids, cones, cylinders, and their combinations. Introduction to Computer-Aided Drawing (CAD) for creating 2D drawings.

---

## Reference Books

-   *Engineering Graphics* – Varghese, P. I., VIP Publishers, 2018
-   *Engineering Graphics* – Benjamin, J., Pentex Publishers, 2016
-   *Engineering Graphics* – John, K. C., Prentice Hall India, 2017
-   *Engineering Drawing* – Bhatt, N., D., Charotar Publishing, 60th edn, 2019
-   *Engineering Graphics* – Anilkumar, K. N., Adhyuth Narayan Publishers, 2022
-   *Engineering Graphics with AutoCAD* – Kulkarni, D. M., Rastogi, A. P. and Sarkar, A. K., Prentice Hall India, 2020
-   *Engineering Drawing & Graphics* – Venugopal, K., New Age International, 5th edn, 2011
-   *Engineering Drawing* – Parthasarathy, N. S., and Murali, V., Oxford University Press, 2015

---
