---

country: "india"
university: "ktu"
branch: "eee"
version: "2024"
semester: 1
course-code: "ucest105"
course-title: "algorithmic-thinking-with-python"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Sharx05"

---

# UCEST105 - Algorithmic Thinking with Python

## Course Objectives

1.  To provide a thorough understanding of algorithmic thinking and its practical applications in solving real-world problems.
2.  To explore various algorithmic paradigms, including brute force, divide-and-conquer, and dynamic programming.

---

## Syllabus Modules

### Module 1: Problem-Solving and Python Essentials

-   Introduction to problem-solving strategies like Heuristics and Backtracking. The problem-solving process. Python essentials: variables, numeric and string data types, basic I/O, and operators.

### Module 2: Algorithm Representation

-   Representing algorithms using pseudocode constructs (sequencing, selection, repetition). Visualizing control flow with flowcharts.

### Module 3: Python Constructs and Recursion

-   Control flow in Python (if-else, for, while). Working with sequence data types like lists, tuples, and dictionaries. Decomposition and modularisation using functions. Introduction to recursion and the call stack.

### Module 4: Computational Approaches

-   Introductory overview of various algorithmic paradigms: Brute-force, Divide-and-conquer (e.g., Merge Sort), Dynamic Programming (e.g., Fibonacci series), Greedy Algorithms, and Randomized Approaches.

---

## Reference Books

-   *Problem solving & programming concepts* – Maureen Sprankle, Jim Hubbard, Pearson, 2012
-   *How to Solve It: A New Aspect of Mathematical Method* – George Pólya, Princeton University Press, 2015
-   *Creative Problem Solving: An Introduction* – Donald Treffinger, Scott Isaksen, Brian Stead-Doval, Prufrock Press, 2005
-   *Psychology (Sec.. Problem Solving.)* – Spielman, R. M., et al., H5P Edition, 2021
-   *Computer Arithmetic Algorithms* – Koren, Israel, AK Peters/CRC Press, 2018
-   *Introduction to Computation and Programming using Python* – Guttag John V, PHI, 2nd edition, 2016
-   *Python for Everyone* – Cay S. Horstmann, Rance D. Necaise, Wiley, 3rd edition, 2024
-   *Computational Thinking: A Primer for Programmers and Data Scientists* – G Venkatesh, Madhavan Mukund, Mylspot Education, 2020

---
