---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "ag4crp11"
course_title: "design-for-web"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG4CRP11: Design for Web

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course introduces you to web authoring techniques and technologies, teaching you how to create basic interactive projects with a focus on Responsive Web Design (RWD). Upon completion, you'll be able to:
* Understand the principles of User Interface (UI) and User Experience (UX) design.
* Apply design concepts like color, typography, and layout to create effective web page mockups.
* Write basic HTML to structure web content.
* Utilize advanced HTML5 & CSS3 for creating animations and transitions.
* Design responsive layouts using a grid system suitable for different devices.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **UI/UX Introduction**: Study of how an interactive system is used to form an effective User Interface and User Experience Design. Principles of Interaction Design.

### **Module 2**
* **Web Layout Design**: Utilization of design concepts, colors, typography, layout & digital imaging to form an effective interface system for Internet Media. Using Photoshop to create an aesthetic layout.

### **Module 3**
* **HTML Basics**: Introduction to HTML, the language used to display information from the World Wide Web through a browser. Introduction to professional coding applications like Notepad++.

### **Module 4**
* **Advanced Web Coding**: Advanced web coding using HTML5 & CSS3 in Dreamweaver. Introduction to animation, transition, font & -webkit- techniques in the advanced version of HTML.

### **Module 5**
* **Responsive Design**: Introduction to Responsive Webpage Design (RWD) in connection with a grid system (like 960GS) to access web information from different devices. Exploring unique layouts based on content, purpose, and user.

## References
1.  *Interactive Design for New Media and the Web*: Nicholas V. luppa
2.  *Principles of Interactive Design*: Lisa Graham
3.  *The Design of Everyday Things*: Donald A. Norman