---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "ag4cmp12"
course_title: "typography"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG4CMP12: Typography

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course enables you to create professional-level typographic designs. Upon completion, you will be able to:
* Practice calligraphy and understand its application in modern design.
* Understand typeface anatomy, measurements, and classifications.
* Select appropriate typefaces for designs based on readability, legibility, and concept.
* Apply typographic principles like point size, line length, leading, tracking, and kerning.
* Create expressive typographic art like concrete poetry and calligrammes.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Art of Writing**: Calligraphy: basic tools and instruments (dip pens, brushes, nibs). Application of calligraphy in designs like logos and thematic posters. Understanding the difference between Calligraphy and Typography.

### **Module 2**
* **Understanding Typeface**: Typefaces and fonts. Anatomy of a letter (Apex, Beak, Arm, tail, serif, X-height). Measurements (relative and absolute, point, pica). Em space and En space. Majuscule and minuscule. Display type vs. text types.

### **Module 3**
* **Classification of Type**: Exploring classifications like old style, transitional, modern, slab serif, sans serif, script, decorative, etc.

### **Module 4**
* **Typography in Design**: Selection of a typeface in a design. Adjusting point size, line length, leading, tracking, and kerning. Ensuring readability and legibility. Integration with visuals, concept, and theme. 3D type application.

### **Module 5**
* **Expressive Typography**: Expressing the meaning or idea of a word by using size, spacing, or placement of letters. Creating pattern poems (Concrete poetry), Typo-grams, Calligrammes, etc.

## References
1.  *Thinking with Type, 2nd revised and expanded edition*: Ellen Lupton
2.  *Hand-Lettering Ledger*: Mary Kate McDevitt
3.  *The Typographic Universe: Letterforms Found in Nature, the Built World and Human Imagination*: Steven Heller & Gail Anderson
4.  *Shadow Type: Classic Three-Dimensional Lettering*: Steven Heller & Louise Fili
5.  *Drawing Type: An Introduction to Illustrating Letter forms*: Alex Fowkes.