---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "ag4prp05"
course_title: "advanced-cel-animation"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG4PRP05: Advanced Cel Animation

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This project-based course is meant for analyzing animal locomotion and motion in the real world to create advanced 2D animations. By the end of this course, you will be able to:
* Animate the normal and stylized movements of four-legged and two-legged animals.
* Animate the flight and movements of birds, reptiles, insects, and fish.
* Perform dialogue animation using phonetics, standard mouth shapes, and voice-over synchronization.
* Animate special effects like cloth, weather, water, smoke, and fire.
* Create a complete digital 2D animated short film with proper ink, paint, and sound synchronization.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Animal Locomotion**: Animation of four-legged and two-legged animals, focusing on normal and stylized movements.

### **Module 2**
* **Diverse Movements**: Animating bird flight in different stages, movements of reptiles, and animating insects and fishes.

### **Module 3**
* **Dialogue Animation**: Understanding phonetics and standard mouth shapes. Techniques for dialogue animation, phrasing, accents, and attitudes. Recording dialogues and voice-overs and marking them in X-sheets. Animating dialogue for humanoid characters.

### **Module 4**
* **Special Effects Animation**: Synchronizing sound. Animating special effects like cloth, sky, lightning, rainfall, snow, water drops, ripples, waves, smoke, fire, explosions, etc.

### **Module 5**
* **Project**: Creation of a digital 2D animation short film with proper use of digital ink and paint, sound synchronization, and other advanced techniques.

## References
1.  *The Animator's Survival Kit*: Richard Williams
2.  *Cartoon Animation*: Preston Blair
3.  *Timing for Animation*: Harold Whitaker and John Halas
4.  *How to Make Animated Films*: Tony White
5.  *Character Animation-2D Skills for Better 3D*: Steve Roberts
6.  *Horses and Other Animals in Motion*: Eadweard Muybridge
7.  *The Illusion of Life: Disney Animation*: Ollie Johnston, Frank Thomas
8.  *Animation from Pencils to Pixels: Classical Techniques for the Digital Animator*: Tony White
9.  *The Animator's Workbook: Step-By-Step Techniques of Drawn Animation*: Tony White