---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "ag4crp13"
course_title: "techniques-of-3d-animation"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG4CRP13: Techniques of 3D Animation

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This specialty course provides you with the technical skills needed to effectively model, texture, rig, alter, and support character animations in a 3D environment. After finishing this course, you will be able to:
* Model complex forms like automobiles and human body parts with proper mesh topology.
* Create and apply complex materials and UV texture maps to 3D models.
* Build and control character rigs using skeletons, IK/FK, constraints, and driven keys.
* Apply skinning techniques and use deformers and blend shapes for character setup.
* Utilize non-linear animation techniques, edit animation curves, and create cyclic animations like walks and runs.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Advanced Modeling**: Modeling automobiles and human body parts (head, ear, mouth, limbs, torso). Creating blend shapes, ensuring good mesh topology, and performing mesh clean-up.

### **Module 2**
* **Advanced Texturing**: Creating materials through nodes and using material utilities. Applying UV coordinates for texturing, editing UV layouts, and painting UV maps in texture painting software. Application of procedural texturing.

### **Module 3**
* **Rigging**: Study of skeleton setups. Skeleton creation, IK and FK, attribute controls, expressions, and basic scripting for rigging. Creating rigs for props and two-legged characters using constraints, custom attributes, and driven keys.

### **Module 4**
* **Deformation and Skinning**: Using deformers, applying skinning, controlling skin weights by painting, and using blend shapes for facial animation and corrections.

### **Module 5**
* **Advanced Animation**: Editing animation curves, using animation layering, and applying animation constraints. Pose creation. Linear and non-linear animation techniques using modifiers and controllers. Planning, blocking, and creating breakdowns for animations. Creating cyclic animations like walk, run, and jump cycles.

## References
1.  *Character Development in Blender 2.5*: Jonathan Williamson
2.  *Autodesk 3ds Max 2014 Essentials*: Randi L. Derakhshani, Dariush Derakhshani
3.  *Autodesk Maya 2014 Essentials*: Paul Naas
4.  *Blender Master Class - A Hands-On Guide to Modeling, Sculpting, Materials, and Rendering*: Ben Simonds
5.  *3D Human Modeling and Animation*: Peter Ratner
6.  *Digital Animation Bible - Creating Professional Animation With 3ds Max, Lightwave, And Maya*: George Avgerakis
7.  *Animation Methods - Rigging Made Easy: Rig Your First 3D Character in Maya*: David Rodriguez
8.  *Blender Studio Projects: Digital Movie Making*: Tony Mullen, Claudio Andaur