---
country: "india"
university: "ktu"
branch: "electronics-and-communication-engineering"
version: "2019"
semester: 4
course_code: "ect201"
course_title: "solid-state-devices"
language: "english"
contributor: "@alwynrejicser"
---

# ECT201: Solid State Devices

## Course Objectives

- Apply Fermi-Dirac Distribution function and compute carrier concentration at equilibrium and the parameters associated with generation, recombination and transport mechanism.
- Explain drift and diffusion currents in extrinsic semiconductors and compute current density due to these effects.
- Define the current components and derive the current equation in a PN junction diode and bipolar junction transistor.
- Explain the basic MOS physics and derive the expressions for drain current in linear and saturation regions.
- Discuss scaling of MOSFETs and short channel effects.

## Course Content

### Module I

- Elemental and compound semiconductors.
- Intrinsic and Extrinsic semiconductors.
- Concept of effective mass.
- Fermions - Fermi Dirac distribution, Fermi level.
- Doping & Energy band diagram.
- Equilibrium and steady state conditions.
- Density of states & Effective density of states.
- Equilibrium concentration of electrons and holes.
- Excess carriers in semiconductors: Generation and recombination mechanisms of excess carriers, quasi Fermi levels.

### Module II

- Carrier transport in semiconductors: drift, conductivity and mobility.
- Variation of mobility with temperature and doping.
- Hall Effect.
- Diffusion, Einstein relations, Poisson equations, Continuity equations, Current flow equations.
- Diffusion length, Gradient of quasi Fermi level.

### Module III

- PN junctions: Contact potential, Electrical Field, Potential and Charge distribution at the junction.
- Biasing and Energy band diagrams, Ideal diode equation.
- Metal Semiconductor contacts: Electron affinity and work function, Ohmic and Rectifying Contacts, current-voltage characteristics.
- Bipolar junction transistor: current components, Transistor action, Base width modulation.

### Module IV

- Ideal MOS capacitor: band diagrams at equilibrium, accumulation, depletion and inversion.
- Threshold voltage, body effect.
- MOSFET structure and types.
- Drain current equation (derive) – linear and saturation region.
- Drain characteristics, Transfer characteristics.

### Module V

- MOSFET scaling – need for scaling, constant voltage scaling and constant field scaling.
- Sub-threshold conduction in MOS.
- Short channel effects: Channel length modulation, Drain Induced Barrier Lowering, Velocity Saturation, Threshold Voltage Variations and Hot Carrier Effects.
- Non-Planar MOSFETs: FinFET – structure, operation and advantages.

## References

1. Neamen, *Semiconductor Physics and Devices*, McGraw Hill, 4/e, 2012.
2. Sze S.M., *Semiconductor Devices: Physics and Technology*, John Wiley, 3/e, 2005.
3. Pierret, *Semiconductor Devices Fundamentals*, Pearson, 2006.
4. Sze S.M., *Physics of Semiconductor Devices*, John Wiley, 3/e, 2005.
5. Achuthan, K N Bhat, *Fundamentals of Semiconductor Devices*, 1e, McGraw Hill, 2015.
6. Yannis Tsividis, *Operation and Modelling of the MOS Transistor*, Oxford University Press.
7. Jan M. Rabaey, Anantha Chandrakasan, Borivoje Nikolic, *Digital Integrated Circuits – A Design Perspective*, PHI.
8. Ben G. Streetman and Sanjay Kumar Banerjee, *Solid State Electronic Devices*, Pearson, 6/e, 2010. *(Modules I, II and III)*
9. Sung Mo Kang, *CMOS Digital Integrated Circuits: Analysis and Design*, McGraw-Hill, 3/e, 2002. *(Modules IV and V)*
