---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "5"
course_code: "ag5cmp15"
course_title: "interaction-design"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG5CMP15: Interaction Design

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course introduces basic programming concepts, allowing you to explore and experiment with code to control visual and interactive elements for creating innovative multimedia projects. On completing this course, you'll be able to:
* Explain internet concepts like web hosting and differentiate between static and dynamic websites.
* Use client-side scripting (JavaScript) for user validation and understand the Document Object Model (DOM).
* Use server-side scripting (PHP) to send and retrieve form data from a server.
* Manage a database using SQL or MySQL to create, read, update, and delete records.
* Create and host a portfolio site or blog to showcase your skills to the world.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Web Fundamentals**: Explore internet terms like web hosting, web server, client-server, and domain registration. Explain the difference between static and dynamic Web Sites.

### **Module 2**
* **Client-Side Scripting**: Introduction to the client-side scripting language JavaScript. Creating user logins and form validation using JScript. Introduction to the DOM (Document Object Model) concept.

### **Module 3**
* **Server-Side Scripting**: Introduction to the server-side scripting language PHP. Explain how form data is sent to the server and retrieved from the server to the browser window.

### **Module 4**
* **Database Management**: Introduction to Database Management Systems (DBMS) like SQL or MySQL, which are used to create, read, write, delete, and update records to/from a database from a PHP file.

### **Module 5**
* **Project**: Hosting your portfolio site or creating a blog to showcase your skillset to the realm of multimedia for job hunting purposes.

## References
1.  *Adobe Flash Professional CC Classroom in a Book*: By Adobe Creative Team.
2.  *Adobe Flash Professional CC: A Tutorial Approach*: Prof. Sham Tickoo.
3.  *Learning ActionScript 3.0 (A Beginner's Guide)*: Rich Shupe, Zevan Rosser.
4.  *Fundamentals of ActionScript 3.0: Develop and Design*: Doug Winnie.