---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "5"
course_code: "ag5crp17"
course_title: "advanced-3d-animation-techniques"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG5CRP17: Advanced 3D Animation Techniques

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course covers advanced areas of 3D modeling, character animation, rigging, and rendering, with a special emphasis on imbuing computer-generated characters with the illusion of life. You will learn to:
* Model different types of realistic and stylized human and animal characters.
* Animate characters by applying principles of animation, body language, and lip-syncing.
* Create advanced rigs for four-legged characters.
* Implement advanced lighting techniques for characters and scenes, including camera matching.
* Use advanced rendering techniques like ray tracing, global illumination, and render passes for compositing.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Advanced Modeling**: Modeling different types of human characters (real, stylized, comic, different age groups). Modeling animals and birds, focusing on basic proportions and body parts (head, horns, limbs, wings, etc.).

### **Module 2**
* **Advanced Character Animation**: Animating different character types by applying principles of animation. Focusing on body language, posing, action-reaction, push-pull, lift-throw, and staging. Animating to music and dialogues, including lip-sync, facial expressions, and using tools like the Graph Editor and Dope Sheet.

### **Module 3**
* **Advanced Rigging**: Creating rigs for four-legged characters.

### **Module 4**
* **Advanced Lighting**: Lighting a character and lighting a scene to match an environment. Techniques for exterior lighting, interior lighting, and camera matching.

### **Module 5**
* **Advanced Rendering**: Techniques like Ray Tracing, Final Gathering, Global Illumination, and Caustic Effects. Render setups for single frames and batches. Applying motion blur, render passes for compositing, and using Image-Based Lighting (HDRI).

## References
1.  *Autodesk 3ds Max 2014 Essentials*: Randi L. Derakhshani, Dariush Derakhshani.
2.  *Autodesk Maya 2014 Essentials*: Paul Naas.
3.  *Character Animation-2D Skills for Better 3D*: Steve Roberts.
4.  *The Animator's Survival Kit*: Richard Williams.
5.  *Timing for Animation*: Harold Whitaker and John Halas.
6.  *Digital Animation Bible*: George Avgerakis.
7.  *Digital Lighting and Rendering*: Jeremy Birn.
8.  *Mastering Mental Ray*: Jennifer O'Conner.
9.  *Blender Studio Projects: Digital Movie Making*: Tony Mullen, Claudio Andaur.
10. *Blender Master Class*: Ben Simonds.