---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "5"
course_code: "ag5opp1.2"
course_title: "open-course-architectural-design"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG5OPP1.2: Open Course - Architectural Design

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course enables you to create finished architectural models from AutoCAD drawings. By the end of this project-based course, you will be able to:
* Navigate the AutoCAD interface and set up a drawing from scratch.
* Use basic 2D drawing and modification tools, including layers and dimensions.
* Understand 3D concepts and use 3D modeling and editing tools in AutoCAD.
* Create 3D models from 2D sketches.
* Import drawings into other 3D software for material application, lighting, and rendering.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Intro to AutoCAD**: Advantages of AutoCAD, system requirements, command entry, setting up a page, and starting drawings. Creating and using templates.

### **Module 2**
* **2D Drawing**: Using co-ordinate systems and the UCS. Using the draw toolbar, modify tools, and functional keys. Managing drawing properties like layers, line weight, and dimensions.

### **Module 3**
* **3D Concepts**: Advantages of 3D. Introduction to 3D menus, 3D co-ordinate systems, isometric & orthographic views, and visual styles. Converting 2D drawings into 3D.

### **Module 4**
* **3D Modeling**: Drawing 2D sketches and modeling them in 3D.

### **Module 5**
* **Rendering**: Importing DWG drawings into other 3D software. Unit setting, 3D modeling from 2D sketches, giving materials & lightings, and rendering.

## References
1.  *Mastering AutoCAD 2011*: George Omura.
2.  *AutoCAD 2011: A Problem-Solving Approach*: Sham Tickoo.
3.  *AutoCAD 2011 and AutoCAD LT 2011 Bible*: Ellen Finkelstein.
4.  *Introduction to AutoCAD 2011-2D & 3D Design*: Alf Yarwood.
5.  *Illustrated AutoCAD 2011 Quick Reference*: Ralph Grabowski.
6.  *Discovering AutoCAD 2011*: Mark Dix, Paul Riley.