---
country: "india"
university: "ktu"
branch: "computer-science-and-engineering"
version: "2019"
semester: 1
course_code: "est120"
course_title: "basics-of-civil-and-mechanical-engineering"
---

# est120: BASICS OF CIVIL AND MECHANICAL ENGINEERING

## course outcomes

- **co 1**: recall the role of civil engineer in society and relate the various disciplines of civil engineering.  
- **co 2**: explain different types of buildings, building components, building materials and building construction.  
- **co 3**: describe the importance, objectives and principles of surveying.  
- **co 4**: summarise the basic infrastructure services like mep, hvac, elevators, escalators and ramps.  
- **co 5**: discuss materials, energy systems, water management and environment aspects of green buildings.  
- **co 6**: analyse thermodynamic cycles and calculate their efficiency.  
- **co 7**: illustrate the working and features of internal combustion engines.  
- **co 8**: explain the basic principles of refrigeration and air conditioning.  
- **co 9**: describe the working of hydraulic machines.  
- **co 10**: explain the working of power transmission elements.  
- **co 11**: describe the basic manufacturing, metal joining and machining processes.

## reference books

1. chen w.f and liew j y r (eds), *the civil engineering handbook*, ii edition, crc press (taylor and francis)  
2. chudley, r and greeno r, *building construction handbook*, addison wesley, longman group, england  
3. chudley, r, *construction technology*, vol. i to iv, longman group, england  
4. kandya a a, *elements of civil engineering*, charotar publishing house  
5. mamlouk, m. s., and zaniewski, j. p., *materials for civil and construction engineering*, pearson publishers  
6. rangwala s.c and dalal k b, *building construction*, charotar publishing house  
7. clifford, m., simmons, k. and shipway, p., *an introduction to mechanical engineering part i*, crc press  
8. roy and choudhary, *elements of mechanical engineering*, media promoters & publishers pvt. ltd., mumbai  
9. sawhney, g. s., *fundamentals of mechanical engineering*, phi  
10. g shanmugam, m s palanichamy, *basic civil and mechanical engineering*, mcgraw hill education; first edition, 2018  
11. benjamin, j., *basic mechanical engineering*, pentex books, 9th edition, 2018  
12. balachandran, p., *basic mechanical engineering*, owl books  
