---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-visual-effects"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "av4crp03"
course_title: "stop-motion-techniques"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AV4CRP03: Stop Motion Techniques

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
This course introduces you to a wide range of stop motion styles, materials, and techniques, including clay, object, and puppet animation. You'll be encouraged to develop a personal approach while exploring possibilities in character design, armature and set building, and lighting. You will learn to:
* Understand the history of stop motion and the general workflow, from script to post-production.
* Create project works using time-lapse and pixilation techniques.
* Complete projects using cutout animation and sand animation.
* Build and prepare puppets for clay animation, including armatures and costumes.
* Understand the post-production process, including editing, sound design, and adding effects.

## Course Content

### **Module 1**
* **Introduction**: History of stop motion techniques, study of famous works and studios. General workflow, including script, storyboard, character design, set design, and props creation.
* **Shooting Technique**: Camera, tripods, lighting, data storage, and editing software.

### **Module 2**
* **Time-Lapse and Pixilation**: Study of time-lapse and pixilation techniques, followed by project works in both.

### **Module 3**
* **Cutout and Sand Animation**: Study of cutout animation and sand animation, followed by project works.

### **Module 4**
* **Puppet/Clay Animation**: Types of puppets (simple clay models, toys, maquettes, armatures, clothed puppets). Preparation of models, coloring, and puppet costumes.

### **Module 5**
* **Post Production**: Editing and effects, adding sound tracks, and sound effects to finalize the project.

## References
1.  *The Art of Stop motion animation*: Ken A Priebe
2.  *Stop motion: Craft skills for model Animation*: Susannah Shaw
3.  *Stop motion: Passion, Process and Performance*: Barry JC Purves
4.  *Creating 3D Animation - The Aardaman Book of Film making*: Peter Lord & Brian Sibley
5.  *Stop motion Armature Machining - A Construction Manual*: Tom Brierton
6.  *A Century of Stop Motion Animation from Melies to Aardaman*: Ray Harry Hausen
7.  *Stop motion Filming and Performance*: Tom Brierton
8.  *Stop motion Puppet Sculpting*: Tom Brierton