---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "3"
course_code: "ag3crp07"
course_title: "character-designing-for-animation"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG3CRP07: Character Designing for Animation

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
The objective of this course is to provide students with a thorough understanding of the anatomy of human, creature, and cartoon characters. Upon completion, students will be able to:
* Understand the principles of human anatomy across different age groups.
* Apply anatomical knowledge to draw male and female figures, including detailed body parts and poses.
* Analyze and draw the anatomy and motion of animals, birds, and reptiles.
* Design and construct cartoon characters by distorting proportions and creating expressive features.
* Create classic and Manga-style cartoon characters.

## Course Content

### Module - 1
* **Human Anatomy:** Anatomy of Different Age Groups (Babies, Kids, Teens, Young Adults, Aged), Basic Proportions, Basic Understanding of the Skeletal and Muscle System, and Human Forms in Perspective.

### Module - 2
* **Male and Female Anatomy:** Body Structure, Proportion and Construction of Body Parts (Torso, Face, Eyes, Nose, Ears, Mouth, Hand, Feet Etc.), Motion Analysis, and Study of Poses.

### Module - 3
* **Anatomy of Animals, Birds, Reptiles:** Body Structure, Basic Forms, Proportion and Construction of Body Parts (Head, Legs, Tails). Use of Perspectives While Drawing Animals, Birds, Reptiles and Insects. Understanding Motion and Grace.

### Module - 4
* **Cartoon Characters:** Understanding Cartoon Characters, Cartoon Constructions, Character Development, Drawing from Basic Shapes, Distortion of Proportions, Cartoon Faces, Eyes, Mouths, Hairs, Nose, Hands, Feet, and Facial Expressions.

### Module - 5
* **Classic Cartoon Characters:** Creating Humans, Animals, Birds, Reptiles in styles like Cute, Screwball, Goofy, Heavy, Pugnacious. Designing Fairy Tale Characters, Gnomes, Elves, Dwarfs, Witches, and understanding the Manga Style.

## References
1.  How to Draw What You See: Rudy De Reyna
2.  Figure Study Made Easy: Aditya Chari
3.  Figure Drawing Without a Model: Ron Tiner
4.  Classic Human Anatomy: The Artist's Guide to Form, Function, and Movement: Valerie L. Winslow
5.  Anatomy for the Artist: Sarah Simblet
6.  The Art of Animal Drawing: Construction, Action, Analysis, Caricature: Ken Hultgen
7.  Animal Drawing: Anatomy and Action for Artists: Charles R. Knight
8.  Animal Anatomy for Artists: Eliot Goldfinger
9.  Bird Anatomy for Artists: Natalia Balo
10. Cartoon Animation: Preston Blair
11. Disney Animation - The Illusion of Life: Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston
12. How to Draw Animation - Learn the Art of Animation from Character Design to Storyboards and Layouts: Christopher Hart