---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "3"
course_code: "ag3crp08"
course_title: "basics-of-3d-animation"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG3CRP08: Basics of 3D Animation

## Course Objectives
* To introduce the student to the world of 3D. 
* To learn how to work in 3D space, model, texture, apply lights and finally take a render output of his/her creation.

## Course Outcomes
* **CO 1:** Understand the 3D production pipeline and navigate 3D software.
* **CO 2:** Apply various modeling techniques like Spline, NURBS, and Polygon to create detailed 3D models.
* **CO 3:** Create and apply materials, textures, and lighting (1, 2, and 3-point) to 3D scenes. 
* **CO 4:** Animate objects using keyframes and apply basic animation principles like Squash & Stretch and Timing. 
* **CO 5:** Model and light interior and exterior environments and understand rendering basics. 

## Course Content

### Module - 1
* Introduction to 3D- Introduction to 3D animation, its uses and scope, 3D production pipeline, and various 3D softwares. Understanding different file types and basic skills for handling the selected software (transforming objects, object properties, hierarchies, pivots, etc.). 

### Module - 2
* Modeling- Modeling techniques like Spline, NURBS, Polygon and SubD. Learning various tools and their applications, and detailed modeling of furniture, instruments, character props, etc.

### Module - 3
* Texturing and Lighting- Shaders and Materials, 2D and 3D textures, Texturing with HDR images, and Different Types of Material Creation. Normal and Artificial Lighting (1 Point, 2 Point, 3 Point Lighting In 3D Space), Common Light Attributes, and Shadow attributes.

### Module - 4
* Animation- Introduction to Animation, Key frame creation, and Animation curves. Animating through paths, and application of basic animation principles: Squash & Stretch, Timing & Spacing, Anticipation, Slow-In & Slow-Out. Using 3D Cameras and creating camera movements.

### Module - 5
* Environments and Rendering- Exterior Modeling (Environments- Buildings, Hills, City Etc.) and Interior Modeling (Architectural / Industrial Structures). Exterior and Interior Lighting. Rendering basics, Global illumination, and Final gather.

## References
1.  The Art of 3D Computer Animation and Effects: Isaac Kerlow
2.  Autodesk 3ds Max 2014 Essentials: Randi L. Derakhshani, Dariush Derakhshani 
3.  Autodesk Maya 2014 Essentials: Paul Naas 
4.  Blender Master Class - A Hands-On Guide to Modeling, Sculpting, Materials, and Rendering: Ben Simonds 
5.  Blender Studio Projects: Digital Movie Making: Tony Mullen, Claudio Andaur 
6.  Digital Animation Bible - Creating Professional Animation With 3ds Max, Lightwave, And Maya: George Avgerakis 
7.  3D Automotive Modeling: An Insider's Guide to 3D Car Modeling and Design: Andrew Gahan
