---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "animation-and-graphic-design"
version: "2017"
semester: "3"
course_code: "AG3CMP09"
course_title: "basic-compositing-and-visual-effects"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---

# AG3CMP09: Basic Compositing and Visual Effects

## Course Objectives and Outcomes
The objective of this course is to introduce students to compositing software and illuminate the possibilities of compositing in today's media world. Upon completion, students will be able to:
* Understand the fundamentals of compositing and navigate the interface of compositing software like After Effects.
* Perform basic animation and layer management using keyframes, transforms, and pre-compositions.
* Apply masking, track mattes (luma and alpha), and blending modes to combine and manipulate layers.
* Use effects and presets for tasks like chroma keying and color correction.
* Implement motion tracking and stabilization to integrate visual effects into footage and create a demo reel.

## Course Content

### Module - 1
* **Introduction to Compositing:** What is Compositing? Introduction to After Effects Interface, creating a new composition, timeline panels, adding footage, resolution, and quality settings.

### Module - 2
* **Layers and Basic Animation:** Working with adjustment layers and solid layers. Understanding Pre-Composition. Basic Animation of Layer properties: Rotation, Scale, Transform, Anchor point. Creating Keyframes, Text animation, and using Easy Ease.

### Module - 3
* **Layer Management and Mattes:** Selecting and moving layers, trimming in and out points, and applying motion blur. Masking: Creating and transforming masks, feathering, and animating masks. Using blending modes and track mattes (luma, alpha matte, animated mattes).

### Module - 4
* **Effects:** Applying effects from the Effects and preset panel. Using Garbage mattes to support keying. Performing Chroma Keying and Colour correction.

### Module - 5
* **Tracking and Time:** Motion tracking and Motion stabilization. Applying Time warp. Creating a VFX Demo Reel.

## References
1.  Compositing Visual effects: Steve Wright
2.  The art and science of Digital Compositing: Ron Brinkmaan
3.  Digital Compositing in Depth: Doug Kelley.
4.  Motion Graphics: Graphic Design For Broad cast and Film: Steve Curran
5.  How did they do that: Motion Graphics: David Green
6.  Creating Motion Graphics with AE: Trish Meyel.